README.md, before:

# Mtree

Mtree (previously Modular Tree) is a library for making 3d trees. It comes as an addon for blender but the c++ library can be used separately.

## Table of contents
- [Mtree](#mtree)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation (blender addon)](#installation-blender-addon)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Usage](#usage)
  - [License](#license)


## Installation (blender addon)
Go to the [latest release]. Under `Assets`, select the version corresponding to your os.\
Follow the [blender documentation][blender addon doc] to install the downloaded addon.

## Development
### Dependencies
- [Cmake]
- Blender 2.93 or higher (if you want to to develop the blender addon)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository reccursively `git clone --recursive https://github.com/MaximeHerpin/modular_tree`
2. Execute the `build_mtree` bash script corresponding to your platform.
3. If all went well, a cmake project has been generated under `mtree/build`.
4. You can bundle the blender addon by calling the [addon bundling script].

### Usage
A `Tree` is generated by executing a succession of `TreeFunction`. When being executed, a `TreeFunction` modifies the structure of the tree, and then calls children functions recursively.\
For example, a basic tree has a trunk and branches on the trunk. Such a tree can be generated as such:
```c++
auto trunk = std::make_shared<TrunkFunction>();
auto branches = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
trunk->add_child(branches); // branches are added on top of the trunk
Tree tree(trunk);
tree.execute_functions(); // The tree structure is generated
ManifoldMesher mesher; // A mesher is responsible of converting a tree into a 3d mesh. The ManifoldMesher ensures a smooth topology
mesher.radial_resolution = 32;
Mesh tree_mesh = mesher.mesh_tree(tree); // the resulting mesh contains the geometry of the tree in the form of vertices and triangles
```
A second layer of branches can be grown on top of the branches by adding another branch function as a child of the first branch function: 
```c++
auto branches_primary = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
auto branches_secondary = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
branches_primary.add_child(branches_secondary); // the secondray branches will be distributed on top of the primary branches
```
Some trees have healthy branches as well as a layer of thin dead branches along the trunk. This can be achieved by adding to branch functions with different parameters on the trunk:
```c++
auto trunk = std::make_shared<TrunkFunction>();
auto branches_healthy = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
auto branches_dead = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
branches_dead.length = RandomProperty{.1f,1f}; // dead branches will have a length between 10cm and 1m.
branches_dead.start_radius = ConstantProperty{.05f}; // dead branches will have a radius equal to 5% of the parent nodes

trunk->add_child(branches_healthy); // both sets of branches are grown on top of the trunk
trunk->add_child(branches_dead);
Tree tree(trunk);
```
## License
Blender being under the GPL license, the blender addon (all files under `python_classes` as well as `__init__.py`) is under the [GPLv3] license.\
The Mtree library is under the [MIT] license.


[latest release]: https://github.com/MaximeHerpin/modular_tree/releases
[blender addon doc]: https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/editors/preferences/addons.html#installing-add-ons
[Cmake]: https://cmake.org/
[addon bundling script]: ./.github/scripts/setup_addon.py
[GPLv3]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html
[MIT]: https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/\

Commit message:

Port to Blender 4.2. Remove Win and MacOS from CI.

README.md, after:

# Fork Information

This is a fork of [MaximeHerpin/modular_tree](https://github.com/MaximeHerpin/modular_tree) which has not been maintained since 2022.
It is ported to support Blender 4.2. But right now only the linux version can be built by the CI.

# Mtree

Mtree (previously Modular Tree) is a library for making 3d trees. It comes as an addon for blender but the c++ library can be used separately.

## Table of contents
- [Mtree](#mtree)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation (blender addon)](#installation-blender-addon)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Usage](#usage)
  - [License](#license)


## Installation (blender addon)
Go to the [latest release]. Under `Assets`, select the version corresponding to your os.\
Follow the [blender documentation][blender addon doc] to install the downloaded addon.

## Development
### Dependencies
- [Cmake]
- Blender 2.93 or higher (if you want to to develop the blender addon)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository reccursively `git clone --recursive https://github.com/MaximeHerpin/modular_tree`
2. Execute the `build_mtree` bash script corresponding to your platform.
3. If all went well, a cmake project has been generated under `mtree/build`.
4. You can bundle the blender addon by calling the [addon bundling script].

### Usage
A `Tree` is generated by executing a succession of `TreeFunction`. When being executed, a `TreeFunction` modifies the structure of the tree, and then calls children functions recursively.\
For example, a basic tree has a trunk and branches on the trunk. Such a tree can be generated as such:
```c++
auto trunk = std::make_shared<TrunkFunction>();
auto branches = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
trunk->add_child(branches); // branches are added on top of the trunk
Tree tree(trunk);
tree.execute_functions(); // The tree structure is generated
ManifoldMesher mesher; // A mesher is responsible of converting a tree into a 3d mesh. The ManifoldMesher ensures a smooth topology
mesher.radial_resolution = 32;
Mesh tree_mesh = mesher.mesh_tree(tree); // the resulting mesh contains the geometry of the tree in the form of vertices and triangles
```
A second layer of branches can be grown on top of the branches by adding another branch function as a child of the first branch function: 
```c++
auto branches_primary = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
auto branches_secondary = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
branches_primary.add_child(branches_secondary); // the secondray branches will be distributed on top of the primary branches
```
Some trees have healthy branches as well as a layer of thin dead branches along the trunk. This can be achieved by adding to branch functions with different parameters on the trunk:
```c++
auto trunk = std::make_shared<TrunkFunction>();
auto branches_healthy = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
auto branches_dead = std::make_shared<BranchFunction>();
branches_dead.length = RandomProperty{.1f,1f}; // dead branches will have a length between 10cm and 1m.
branches_dead.start_radius = ConstantProperty{.05f}; // dead branches will have a radius equal to 5% of the parent nodes

trunk->add_child(branches_healthy); // both sets of branches are grown on top of the trunk
trunk->add_child(branches_dead);
Tree tree(trunk);
```
## License
Blender being under the GPL license, the blender addon (all files under `python_classes` as well as `__init__.py`) is under the [GPLv3] license.\
The Mtree library is under the [MIT] license.


[latest release]: https://github.com/MaximeHerpin/modular_tree/releases
[blender addon doc]: https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/editors/preferences/addons.html#installing-add-ons
[Cmake]: https://cmake.org/
[addon bundling script]: ./.github/scripts/setup_addon.py
[GPLv3]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html
[MIT]: https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/\
